
2. Pre-flight Checks
Center of Mass (CoM) and Center of Lift (CoL): Ensure the CoL is slightly behind the CoM to maintain stability. Check
that the plane stays balanced as fuel drains.
Staging: Set up staging so you can control when to switch from jet engines to rocket engines.
Control Surfaces: Adjust the authority of control surfaces to ensure they respond well during different phases of flight.

3. Takeoff
Throttle Up: Set your throttle to maximum.
Activate SAS: Toggle SAS on by pressing T to help keep the plane stable.
Engage Jet Engines: Press the Spacebar to activate the jet engines.
Takeoff: Start your takeoff run on the runway. Pitch up gently at around 60-100 m/s (depending on your plane) to lift off.

4. Ascent in Atmosphere
Climb at a Shallow Angle: After takeoff, climb at a shallow angle (about 10-20 degrees) to build up speed. Your goal is
to reach high speeds in the lower atmosphere where jet engines are most efficient.
Speed Up: Continue accelerating until you reach around 1000-1300 m/s at an altitude of 10,000 to 15,000 meters.

5. Transition to Rocket Power
Climb Higher: Once your jet engines start losing efficiency (typically around 18,000-20,000 meters), start pitching up
to around 30-45 degrees to climb more steeply.
Switch to Rocket Engines: When your jet engines flame out or lose too much thrust, cut them off and activate your rocket
engine(s) by staging.
Ascend to Apoapsis: Continue burning until your apoapsis is above 70,000 meters.

6. Circularize Your Orbit
Coast to Apoapsis: Once you reach your desired apoapsis, cut your engines and coast to the apoapsis point.
Burn Prograde: At apoapsis, burn prograde to raise your periapsis above 70,000 meters, achieving a stable orbit.

7. Adjust and Stabilize Orbit (Optional)
Fine-tune: Make minor adjustments to achieve the desired orbit, such as circularizing or setting up for a transfer to
another celestial body.

8. Return to Kerbin
Deorbit Burn: When ready to return, perform a retrograde burn to lower your periapsis into Kerbin’s atmosphere
(around 30,000-40,000 meters).
Reentry: Orient your spaceplane so that the heat shield or belly faces downwards. Use aerodynamic control to maintain
stability.
Glide and Land: After reentry, use your wings to glide towards the KSC (or another landing site). Extend the landing gear
and touch down gently.

9. Mission Success
Congratulations! You've successfully taken your spaceplane to orbit and back. With practice, you can refine your design
and technique for more efficient flights or longer missions.
This guide should help you get started with SSTO spaceplanes in KSP. Happy flying!



“Far over misty mountains cold
To dungeons deep and caverns old
We must away, ere break of day,
To find our long-forgotten gold.”
― J.R.R. Tolkien, The Hobbit

JSON Example
{"employees":[
  { "firstName":"John", "lastName":"Doe" },
  { "firstName":"Anna", "lastName":"Smith" },
  { "firstName":"Peter", "lastName":"Jones" }
]}
